

      **** COOKIES ****

    
  JavaScript Cookies. A cookie is an amount of information that
   persists between a server-side and a client-side. A web browser
    stores this information at the time of browsing. A cookie contains 
    the information as a string generally 
  in the form of a name-value pair separated by semi-colons.

  

    Web Browsers and Servers use HTTP protocol to communicate. HTTP is stateless protocol,
i.e., it doesn’t maintain the client’s data across multiple requests made by the client. This 
complete request-response cycle between the client and the server is defined as a 
session. Cookies are the default mechanism used by browsers to store data pertaining to 
a user’s session.
HowItWorks?
Your server sends some data to the visitor's browser in the form of a cookie. The browser 
may accept the cookie. If it does, it is stored as a plain text record on the visitor's hard 
drive. Now, when the visitor arrives at another page on your site, the browser sends the 
same cookie to the server for retrieval. Once retrieved, your server knows/remembers 
what was stored earlier.
Cookies are plain text data record of 5 variable-length fields.
 Expires: The date the cookie will expire. If this is blank, the cookie will expire 
when the visitor quits the browser.
 Domain: The domain name of your site.
 Path: The path to the directory or web page that sets the cookie. This may be 
blank, if you want to retrieve the cookie from any directory or page.
 Secure: If this field contains the word "secure", then the cookie may only be 
retrieved with a secure server. If this field is blank, no such restriction exists.
 Name=Value: Cookies are set and retrieved in the form of key-value pairs.
Cookies were originally designed for CGI programming. The data contained in a cookie is 
automatically transmitted between the web browser and the web server, so CGI scripts on 
the server can read and write cookie values that are stored on the client side.
JavaScript can also manipulate cookies using the cookie property of the Document object. 
JavaScript can read, create, modify, and delete the cookies that apply to the current web 
page.
StoringCookies
The simplest way to create a cookie is to assign a string value to the document.cookie
object, which looks like this.
document.cookie = "key1=value1;key2=value2;expires=date";