URL encoding is the practice of translating unprintable characters or characters with special 
meaning within URLs to a representation that is unambiguous and universally accepted by 
web browsers and servers. These characters include:
 ASCII control characters: Unprintable characters typically used for output 
control. Character ranges 00-1F hex (0-31 decimal) and 7F (127 decimal). A 
complete encoding table is given below.
 Non-ASCII control characters: These are characters beyond the ASCII character 
set of 128 characters. This range is part of the ISO-Latin character set and includes 
the entire "top half" of the ISO-Latin set 80-FF hex (128-255 decimal). A complete 
encoding table is given below.
 Reserved characters: These are special characters such as the dollar sign, 
ampersand, plus, common, forward slash, colon, semi-colon, equals sign, question 
mark, and "at" symbol. All of these can have different meanings inside a URL so 
need to be encoded. A complete encoding table is given below.
 Unsafe characters: These are space, quotation marks, less than symbol, greater 
than symbol, pound character, percent character, Left Curly Brace, Right Curly 
Brace, Pipe, Backslash, Caret, Tilde, Left Square Bracket, Right Square Bracket, 
Grave Accent. These character present the possibility of being misunderstood 
within URLs for various reasons. These characters should also always be encoded. 
A complete encoding table is given below.
The encoding notation replaces the desired character with three characters: a percent sign 
and two hexadecimal digits that correspond to the position of the character in the ASCII 
character set.
Example
One of the most common special characters is a white space. You can't type a space in a 
URL directly. A space position in the character set is 20 hexadecimals. So you can use 
%20 in place of a space when passing your request to the server.
http://www.example.com/new%20pricing.htm
This URL actually retrieves a document named "new pricing.htm" from the 
www.example.com